chore(website): Add tailscale partner blog (#7759)
cloudquery/cloudquery: website/pages/blog/cloudquery_tailscale.mdx

---
title: Announcing the CloudQuery Tailscale Source Plugin
tag: announcement
date: 2023/02/07
description: >-

>   This tutorial will show you the basic of ingesting your Tailscale configuration to any database/datalake with CloudQuery

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This tutorial will show you the basic of ingesting your Tailscale configuration to any database/data lake with CloudQuery
```

author: yevgenypats
---

import { BlogHeader } from "../../components/BlogHeader"

<BlogHeader/>

## Introduction

> Tailscale source plugin for CloudQuery is now officially maintained by Tailscale - Big thanks for the Tailscale team!.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Tailscale source plugin for CloudQuery is now officially maintained by Tailscale—big thanks to the Tailscale team!
```

> The Tailscale source plugin for CloudQuery is now officially maintained by Tailscale—big thanks to the Tailscale team!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Tailscale](https://tailscale.com/) source plugin for CloudQuery is now officially maintained by Tailscale—big thanks to the Tailscale team!
```

> With the new Tailscale plugin you can now easily query Tailscale config and bring config data to your infrastructure/operational lake
> so you can have all your infrastructure data in one place and correlate between different services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the new Tailscale plugin you can now easily query Tailscale config and bring config data to your infrastructure/operational lake. 
This way you can have all your infrastructure data in one place and correlate between different services.
```

As part of its initial release, the Tailscale plugin supports pulling data for the following APIs:
 - [`tailscale_acls`](https://github.com/cloudquery/cloudquery/blob/main/plugins/source/tailscale/docs/tables/tailscale_acls.md) table
 - [`tailscale_devices`](https://github.com/cloudquery/cloudquery/blob/main/plugins/source/tailscale/docs/tables/tailscale_devices.md) table
 - [`tailscale_device_routes`](https://github.com/cloudquery/cloudquery/blob/main/plugins/source/tailscale/docs/tables/tailscale_device_routes.md) table
 - [`tailscale_dns_nameservers`](https://github.com/cloudquery/cloudquery/blob/main/plugins/source/tailscale/docs/tables/tailscale_dns_nameservers.md) table
 - [`tailscale_dns_searchpaths`](https://github.com/cloudquery/cloudquery/blob/main/plugins/source/tailscale/docs/tables/tailscale_dns_searchpaths.md) table
 - [`tailscale_keys`](https://github.com/cloudquery/cloudquery/blob/main/plugins/source/tailscale/docs/tables/tailscale_keys.md) table

> Let's look at a few useful queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's look at a few useful queries.
```

## Configuration

> First let's quickly look at the source configuration so the plugin can authenticate with the new OAuth Client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, let's quickly look at the source configuration so the plugin. The example below syncs the `tailscale_devices` table to PostgreSQL, making use of the new OAuth client to authenticate.
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml copy
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml copy
```

kind: source
# Common source-plugin configuration
spec:
  name: tailscale
  path: cloudquery/tailscale
  version: "VERSION_SOURCE_TAILSCALE"
  tables: ["tailscale_devices"]
  destinations: ["postgresql"]

>   # Stripe specific configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  # Tailscale specific configuration
```

  spec:
    client_id: "YOUR_CLIENT_ID"
    client_secret: "${TAILSCALE_CLIENT_SECRET}"
    tailnet: "cloudquery.io"
```

## Example Queries

> Let's look at a few useful queries we can do just with the tailscale tables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's look at a few queries we can run on the Tailscale tables.
```

### Unseen devices

> Find all devices that weren't seen more than 30 days:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Find all devices that weren't seen for more than 30 days:
```

> Find all devices that weren't seen more than 30 days:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find all devices that haven't been seen in more than 30 days:
```

> ```sql

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sql copy
```

select name, id, last_seen from tailscale_devices where last_seen < NOW() - INTERVAL '30 DAY';
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```text
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```text
```

    tailnet    |             name              |        id         |      last_seen      
---------------+-------------------------------+-------------------+---------------------
 cloudquery.io | example-name.tail341.ts.net   | 12345678082367896 | 2023-01-07 12:43:18
```

### Key expiry disabled

Find all devices with key expiary disabled

> ```sql

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sql copy
```

select name, id, last_seen from tailscale_devices where key_expiry_disabled;
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```text
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```text
```

    tailnet    |             name              |        id         |      last_seen      
---------------+-------------------------------+-------------------+---------------------
 cloudquery.io | example-name.tail341.ts.net   | 12345678082367896 | 2023-01-07 12:43:18
```

### Distribution of devices

Learn about how tailscale client are distributed in your org across devices

> ```sql

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sql copy
```

select count(*), os from tailscale_devices group by os;
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```text
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```text
```

 count |  os   
-------+-------
   102 | macOS
   103 | linux
   70  | window
```

### Find all devices of disabled Okta users

> Other cool things once you have Tailscale configuration in your database/datalake is that you can join and query it with other CloudQuery [source plugins](https://www.cloudquery.io/docs/plugins/sources/overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other cool things once you have Tailscale configuration in your database/datalake is that you can join and query it with data from other CloudQuery [source plugins](https://www.cloudquery.io/docs/plugins/sources/overview).
```

> For example the following will show all devices of users that were deactivated on Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the following will show all devices of users that were deactivated on Okta:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sql copy
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sql copy
```

> Other cool things once you have Tailscale configuration in your database/datalake is that you can join and query it with data from other CloudQuery [source plugins](https://www.cloudquery.io/docs/plugins/sources/overview).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other cool things once you have Tailscale configuration in your database/datalake is that you can join and query it with data from other CloudQuery [source plugins](/docs/plugins/sources/overview).
```

select td.tailnet, td.name, td.id, td.user, td.last_seen
from tailscale_devices td
    left join okta_users ou 
        on td.user = ou.profile->>'email'
where ou.stats != 'ACTIVE'
```

## Summary

> You can slice and dice Tailscale config data in many ways but this should give you a great starting point!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using data from the new Tailscale source plugin you can slice and dice your Tailscale data in many ways, but the examples in this post should give you a good starting point.
```
